## Methodology Paper
### Introduction
The human development topic I’ve selected is the impacts of vector-borne infectious diseases on people in Arica. Common vector-borne pathogens include viruses, bacterial, parasites, etc. Vector-borne diseases are also the main cause of emerging diseases: they are responsible for more than 17% of all infectious diseases and cause more than 700,000 deaths annually. (WHO, 2020) Even though attentions have been paid to the problems caused by these diseases, it is very difficult or even impossible to completely eliminate such infections. Not to say that it is hard to determine where the initial vector or pathogens come from, even when health bureaus managed to keep certain disease under control, given the seasonal climate changes and constant human mobility, these diseases are very likely to reappear. What’s more, most attention to this problem is focus on tropical and subtropical regions, those poorest places that are also vulnerable to infection transmission received insufficient attention. Data sciences and the analysis of datasets may help people recognize and respond to such problems and the research topic is about in what way can data science methods help people ease vector-borne infectious disease in Africa. The method I’d like to concentrate on is probably the regression models. When reviewing literatures in the previous assignment, many researchers build regression models to predict or forcast the relationship between the spread of infectious diseases and human migration or other variables. Given the nature of these vector-borne diseases, what health agents should think place efforts on is not how to fully eliminate them, but to keep them fully under supervision and how to provide instant help to people suffer from the pathogens' harassments, especially in the places that are likely to be neglected. 
