# Question 1.  How does Owen Barder define development? How does he extend Amartya Sen's definition to include the idea of complexity?  
He views decelopment as the property of economic and social system and should be judged on not only the increase in average income but also. He compared the economic development of South Korea and Ghana, 

# Question 2.  Barder compared the economic growth of South Korea and Ghana between 1960 and 2010.  Why did he make this comparison?  What did this comparison demonstrate when used as the basis to validate economic models?  
South Korea had lower income per person at the beginning, but the income per person in South Korea began to take off in the late 70s. He then began to look at traditional economic models based on the idea that when firms become more productive and household income gradually increase, people enjoy more opportunities and freedoms of choices. 

# Question 3.  What was the toaster project? What did Thomas Thwaites attempt to do? Was he successful? What is the significance of this example in the context of complexity?  
A British person tried to build a electric toaster from scratch. He bought raw materials which add up much more expensive than a regular toaster cost in the supermarket and tried to assemble them. During the process he found that he had so many misunderstanding of the toaster but eventually his works were done, but he couldn't find rubber to cover the wire so the toast got burnt 5 seconds after he put it into the toaster. He consider himself to be partially successful. This project proves that even building such a small toaster requires a lot of technologies and the supply of different materials, which reveals sophisticate operations in the society. Therefore, operating a firm or larger business are much more difficult. It is the mix of complicated legal, capital, economic, political systems that provide citizens the opportunity to fulfill their lives. 

# Question 4.  What was the Harrod Domar growth model? What are the two fundamental variables in this model? Who was Walter Rostow and what was the impact of his work on development?  
After the second world war, economists rely on a simple model-the Harrod Domar growth model: in order to produce a unit of output, we need to combine a certain amount of capital and a certain amount of labor, so we simply need to increase the amount of capital or the amount of labor in order to increase the output in the whole economy. Walter Rostow is the person who proposed the stages of economic growth: investment, capital, growth, income, and savings. He claims that the economic development is a virtuous circle and by simply increasing investment can a country increase output and thus self-sustainable economic growth. 

# Question 5.  What was the Robert Solow model?  How did it address the limitations of the Harrod-Domar model? Was this model successful at predicting economic growth?  
Harrod-Domar has no resemblance in reality: when looking at South Korea and Ghana, we can't dertermine why the former experienced much more development than the latter. Robert Solow introduced the neoclassic growth model in the 1950s which introduced technical changes in addition to capital and labor. Although he couldn't explain where this technical change comes from, the model seems to fit quite well into the reality. However, he didn't clarify why technology is not transferred to poorer countries since technology is supposed to be globally available once it comes out. 

# Question 6. What was the Ajaokuta Steel works? How did it illustrate the transition from a focus on policies to institutions?  How did Acemoglu & Robsinson's book "Why Nations Fail" address governance and politics?  How is their argument a response to the previously failed idea regarding engineering prosperity by providing the correct economic advice?  
It is the largest investment in steel production in Nigeria but it hasn't increase Nigeria's national income. After the post of Washington Consensus, it is the institution, not the policy, that is to blame for the situation. People haven't work out what institution is the most critical for low-income countries, that's why huge amount of money was poured into technical cooperation and wasted. Acemoglu & Robsinson said that mainstream development practice today is built on incorrect by assuming that poor countries are poor because their rulers don't know how to correctly run the country for they prevent correct market from working and tolerate corruption. According to their opinions, poor countries are poor because these countries suite powerful elites to run the institutions in a wrong way, so the institution works more like a political tool than a factor of production. 

# Question 7.  According to Barder, how successful have economic models been at describing and predicting growth over the past 50 years?  
In the past 50 year, traditional economic models find it difficult to describe and predict why some countries suddenly experience rapic economic development after remaining stagmant for quite a long period but other countries do not. There are missing ingredients in the models to make them perform better. Such ingredients include technologies, capitals, policies, etc. 

# Question 8.  What was the significance of Schumpeter's idea of creative destruction? How does it relate to firms and institutions? What is co-evolution and why is it significant?  
Creative destruction refers to the process that new rennovations that adapt better to today's society take the place of old and outdated products. Consider the case of Nokia, Nokia began as a manufacturer of tires and rubbers and later trandferred to telecommunication industry and did pretty well. But it failed to transfer from phone to smartphone and was replaced by Samsung. People's tastes, habits, psychological and physiological change with their circumstance, so products institutions sohuld evolve accordingly and interact with each other, then technologies would co-evolve. 

# Question 9. What is a complex adaptive system? What are some of its important features?  
The term is created by physicists and biologists. It describes the circumstances that economy and society are considered to be composed of the interactions between a large number of adaptive agents that are co-evolving. Important features include: 1) difficult or impossible to predict in detail-butterfly effect. 2) can make broad-rush prediction of the system as a whole. 3) have emergent properties-brain brings people concious but each individual cell does not have conciousness. 4) tends towards greater complexity. 5) do not tend towards equilibrium. 

# Question 10.  Who was Haile Sellasie? What is the significance of Kapuscinski's book The Emperor? How did Ethiopia exemplify the suppression of emergent systemic change? Do you agree with this analysis?  
Haile Sellasie was the Emperor of Ethiopia ruled from 1930 to 1974. Kapuscinski gives a compelling account of the internal logic of the emperor's regimes which exists by extracting economic values from population and suppress the society. Ethiopia is considered to have bad been stuck in a poverty trap in which the rich and powerful elites benefit from prevailing economic structure which suppress the coevolution of more plural and equal social institutions. I agree with this analysis because this is indeed not a simplistic point about the value of democracy. 

# Question 11.  Why does Barder recommend resisting engineering as a policy implication?  What did he mean by iso-morphic mimicry?  
THe first reason is the level of specific improvements: evolutionary processes often out perform design. The second reason is the level of system as a whole: the nonlinear dynamics-generally impossible to predict what will happen based on a particular change. These make engineering solutions nearly impossible. Iso-morphic mimicr is also a bilogical term. It means that it is easier to create institutions that look powerful than to create institutions that can actually enforce law, so in this way, the society tends to generate unfunctional institutions. 

# Question 12.  What did Barder mean by "resist fatalism"? Who was Norman Borlaug and what is the green revolution?
Resist fatalism means that we don't have to accept whatever outcome the process of evolution gives us. Norman Borlaug is the one who brought about the Green Revolution that saved millions of people from starving by intervening in the evolutionary process (through cross-breeding) of crop growth.  

# Question 13.  Barder also recommended to promote innovation, embrace creative destruction and shape development.  What did he mean by these recommendations?  
Promote innovation means people with distinct political instincts tend to think from differnet aspects, Barber recommend the states to help create conditions for the industries and firms to get started as part of a strategic industrial policy. Embracing creative destruction ensures the feasibility of promote innovation by incorporating feedback loops that provide adaptation suitable for that environment. Shape development represents the goals and values for the community which shape people's behaviors according to different social values. 

# Question 14. Who was Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen and what was his insight about economic systems and evolution?  
Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen is a Romanian mathematician, statistician and economist. He believes that human society are heading to collapse and natural resources would exhaust someday in the future so he brought natural resource flows into economic modelling and analysis.
